I've been trying different ways to make
enemies for my game without having to
draw everything from scratch. And this
is the workflow I've been using lately.
So, these bosses here, they're all made
with Pixel Lab. You basically guide the
generation and then clean things up
after. What I usually do first is take
my [music] player sprite, just this
small farmer, and drop it into a bigger
canvas. That way, I [music] have a
reference for scale, so whatever I
generate actually fits the game world.
Then I inpaint the area where I want the
boss to be and describe the [music]
creature. Top down, front-facing,
monster in an idle pose. It usually
gives me something pretty cool right
away, but you can, of course, be more
descriptive. From there, I move to
animation. I use animate with text and
start generating actions like a slam
attack or fire breath. It's not always
perfect on the first try, so I normally
roll a few times, go through the frames,
pick what works, [music] and clean
things up manually. If I want another
enemy that matches the same style, I use
the style reference [music] tool. I feed
the boss we just made as the reference
and prompt a new creature. That keeps
everything visually consistent. For this
other boss, I tried generating directly
inside a level instead of on a
transparent background. I made a
sidescroller map, placed my character in
the scene, and in painted the space for
the boss. Since it's generated on the
map, some background usually sticks to
the character. So, I use the remove
background tool and tell it what I want
to keep. In this case, the llama boss.
Then, I generate different states. A
breathing idle works well, a sleeping
idol, and a simple attack. Same process.
[music] Roll, select frames, small
adjustments. So, yeah, that's basically
the pipeline I've been using. [music]
Generate the boss, animate it, clean it
up, and now it's ready to use.